

In the huge world of the internet, you’ll find lots and lots of advice. It’s not that it’s all bad advice. There’s just so much of it, and a lot of it doesn’t agree with each other.

Some people say, “Work really hard and be better than everyone else to succeed.” But then you might hear, “Don’t work too hard or you’ll forget what really makes you successful.” And others say, “It’s not about working hard, but working smart.” Or, “You should work both smart and hard.”

All this advice can be good, but it can also be confusing because it seems to go against each other.

The thing is, there’s no advice that’s perfect for everyone. What’s really helpful depends on your own situation.

I used to think I could just gather all the good advice from the internet and follow it to be super successful. But that didn’t work because there was so much of it, and it was seemingly contradictory at times.

Now, I have a different algorithm for looking for good advice. Consider it meta-advice.

I look for people that have the success I seek, and I listen to what problems they overcame. If those problems match my own, then I’m all ears. If I can’t relate, then I take it with a grain of salt or skip it altogether.

It turns out, the best advice comes from people that give it in this form: “I used to have a problem and here’s how I solved it. If you have that problem too, what I’m about to say may be helpful.”

I try to avoid advice that comes in the form “You should do this and that, and because I’m successful, you should listen to me.”

The reason isn’t that it’s bad advice. It very well could be good and useful. The problem with advice in this form is that it is unlikely to address the problems and obstacles I have in my life.

It’s better to find people that are like you and have gone through something similar in the past because their advice is likely to be more relevant and actionable.

I think about this a lot when I dispense advice. I’ve had problems with productivity, procrastination, time management, tech leadership, interviewing, burnout, work-life balance, and getting promoted. The list goes on and on. I’ve found that many tech professionals also have these challenges.

I always try to couch this advice into the form I’ve found helpful. Here’s a problem I had, here’s how I dealt with it, here’s what I learned.

Which brings me to the best advice I ever got.

It came up in a conversation I had with my current manager when I first met him over 5 years ago. I asked him about his management style, and he said, “I think about all of the good bosses I’ve had in my career, and what they did that made me happy, and I try to do those things. I think about all of the bad bosses I had, and what they did that made me unhappy, and I try not to do those things. It’s really simple to say but hard to do, and has served me well over the years.”

The reason I adore this advice is because it encapsulates a universal truth: Learning is as much about observing what to embrace as it is about recognizing what to avoid. This approach has not only shaped my career but also my personal development. It’s a methodology that encourages active learning and adaptation, rather than passive acceptance of ‘one-size-fits-all’ solutions. In a world brimming with advice, it helps me navigate through the noise, find my path, and shape a journey that is uniquely mine, not by synthesizing something completely new, but taking the good parts from others and leaving things that I don’t like.

Part of the reason I’ve stayed at Amazon for so long is because I work with exceptional people. This gives me exposure to many different types of success that I can emulate if I so choose. But because the company is so large there are also people that I don’t get along with, not in a personal way, but how they go about their work. And so they also give me something to learn from too, in the form of what to avoid, even if their style differs from mine.

Moreover, the advice my boss gave me really resonates because it takes the form of good advice. My boss had a problem, found a way forward, and shared it with me.

My boss was just promoted to VP, so what he’s doing is definitely working. I still have a lot I can learn from him. But he gave me the most valuable advice many years ago on the day we met.

What was the best piece of advice you ever got? Let me know by replying to this email!

Support

If you’re enjoying these emails, I would be honored if you supported me via Patreon. If you can’t afford to support me, it’s all good. Please continue to enjoy the newsletter, which I plan to make free forever. Patrons get an archive of previous newsletters, early access to videos, and other goodies. If you’re in a position to help, I would really appreciate your support.

Share the love

If you are enjoying the content of this newsletter, please share it with your network. Much of the content here is exclusive to the email newsletter and will not be featured in my YouTube videos or on my other social media accounts. https://newsletter.alifeengineered.com/general
